README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 🗣️🔥 QP-TinySpeech

*Low-Bit <ins>Quantized + Pruned</ins> TinySpeech-Z for low-power MCUs*

</div>

# Overview 

This repository implements the attention-condenser-based TinySpeech architecture, aimed at offsetting the dependence (and subsequent computational cost) of  sparse convulution layers. This brings the parameter count orders of magnitude down from previous low-footprint attempts, while maintaining similar accuracies. We also provide a training and inference engine for the Z, Y and X families achieving 91%+ accuracy. Moreover, this project contains drivers to run the model on the VSDSquadron-Mini board, carrying the CH32V003 MCU and equipped with only 2kb SRAM | 16kb Flash.

<div align="center">
    <i> Paper: https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.04245 | Official Code: </em>N/A</emm> </i>
</div>


# Results 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/afde945d-5d28-41eb-8c2e-6781978e893c)

# Components Utilized 

- [VSDSquadron Mini](https://www.vlsisystemdesign.com/vsdsquadronmini/)
- [ESP32 WROOM Moule](https://www.espressif.com/en/products/socs/esp32) 
- Miscelleneous (Wires, Battery, etc.)

# Experiments 

First, install required packages using `pip install -r requirements.txt`. 

### Training 

You can train the TinySpeech family of models using CLI arguments, or one of the given experiment configs: 

```
python train.py --save_pth "models" --quant --quant_type 8 --model_type Z --epochs 50 --batch_size 64 --lr 0.01 --momentum 0.9 --seed 42 --device "cuda"

# OR

python train.py --config tinyspeechz_google_speech.yaml
```

### Inference 

All the layers required to run the model are specified in the `./verification` folder. Under this, you will find sub-folders for all the layers with a `.c` and `.py` file. First, we generate a tensor and run it against a layer/activation function used in `./training/tinyspeech.py` or `./training/modules.py`. Then, we saved this in the form of a `int8` or `float` binary, which is subsequently loaded into C for testing with the custom code. 

You can test all the layers by running `make verify_all` when in the `./` root directory of the project. 

# Remarks

Run `python -m torch.utils.bottleneck train.py --config <your_config_yaml>` to evaluate efficiency when training. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e94ac50-ff67-4b37-b3a3-04274f8535f0)

Attention condensers are designed to replace or reduce the need for traditional convolutional layers, which are typically resource-intensive. The idea is to leverage a self-contained self-attention mechanism that can effectively capture and model both local and cross-channel activation relationships within the input data.

We're dealing with only quantization-aware training for the TinySpeech-Z and TinySpeech-M variants for now, considering their smaller size. In Quantization Aware Training (QAT), the model weights should not be fully converted to 4 bits throughout the entire training process. Instead, the weights should remain in their higher precision format (typically fp32) during training, but simulated as lower precision (e.g., 4 bits) during the forward and backward passes. This approach allows for the benefits of quantization while still leveraging the precision of higher bit-widths for weight updates.

# Acknowledgements 

- Our quantization-aware training modules were adapted from [BitNetMCU: High Accuracy Low-Bit Quantized Neural Networks on a low-end Microcontroller](https://github.com/cpldcpu/BitNetMCU). This project itself, was inspired by their early work on simple 3-layer CNN inference on a low-end MCU. 

# Citation 

If you find our work useful, please cite us. 

```
@software{araviki-2024-qp_tinyspeech, 
    title="QP-TinySpeech: Extremely Low-Bit Quantized + Pruned TinySpeech-Z for low-power MCUs", 
    author="Ravikiran, Akshath Raghav"
    year={2024}
}
```

Original Paper: 
```
@misc{wong-etal-2020-tinyspeech, 
    title="TinySpeech: Attention Condensers for Deep Speech Recognition Neural Networks on Edge Devices", 
    author="Wong, Alexander and 
            Famouri Mahmoud and 
            Pavlova Maya and 
            Surana Siddharth", 
    year={2020},
    eprint={2008.04245},
    archivePrefix={arXiv},
}
```

Commit message:

Temporary store; identified QAT/SQ and DQ modes; need to define pragmas, and add per_channel_quant_scale to headers
Signed-off-by: AkshathRaghav <akshathraghav.r@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 🗣️🔥 QP-TinySpeech

*Low-Bit <ins>Quantized + Pruned</ins> TinySpeech-Z for low-power MCUs*

</div>

# Overview 

This repository implements the attention-condenser-based TinySpeech architecture, aimed at offsetting the dependence (and subsequent computational cost) of  sparse convulution layers. This brings the parameter count orders of magnitude down from previous low-footprint attempts, while maintaining similar accuracies. We also provide a training and inference engine for the Z, Y and X families achieving 91%+ accuracy. Moreover, this project contains drivers to run the model on the VSDSquadron-Mini board, carrying the CH32V003 MCU and equipped with only 2kb SRAM | 16kb Flash.

<div align="center">
    <i> Paper: https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.04245 | Official Code: </em>N/A</emm> </i>
</div>


# Results 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/afde945d-5d28-41eb-8c2e-6781978e893c)

# Components Utilized 

- [VSDSquadron Mini](https://www.vlsisystemdesign.com/vsdsquadronmini/)
- [ESP32 WROOM Moule](https://www.espressif.com/en/products/socs/esp32) 
- Miscelleneous (Wires, Battery, etc.)

# Experiments 

First, install required packages using `pip install -r requirements.txt`. 

### Training 

You can train the TinySpeech family of models using CLI arguments, or one of the given experiment configs: 

```
python train.py --save_pth "models" --quant --quant_type 8 --model_type Z --epochs 50 --batch_size 64 --lr 0.01 --momentum 0.9 --seed 42 --device "cuda"

# OR

python train.py --config tinyspeechz_google_speech.yaml
```

> We offer training using one of `quant_mode = ["DQ", "SQ", "QAT", "UN"]`. These expand to **Dynamic Quantization**, **Static Quantization**, **Quantization-Aware Training (QAT)** and **Unquantized**.

### Inference 

All the layers required to run the model are specified in the `./verification` folder. Under this, you will find sub-folders for all the layers with a `.c` and `.py` file. First, we generate a tensor and run it against a layer/activation function used in `./training/tinyspeech.py` or `./training/modules.py`. Then, we saved this in the form of a `int8` or `float` binary, which is subsequently loaded into C for testing with the custom code. 

You can test all the layers by running `make verify_all` when in the `./` root directory of the project. 

# Remarks

Run `python -m torch.utils.bottleneck train.py --config <your_config_yaml>` to evaluate efficiency when training. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e94ac50-ff67-4b37-b3a3-04274f8535f0)

Attention condensers are designed to replace or reduce the need for traditional convolutional layers, which are typically resource-intensive. The idea is to leverage a self-contained self-attention mechanism that can effectively capture and model both local and cross-channel activation relationships within the input data.

We're dealing with only quantization-aware training for the TinySpeech-Z and TinySpeech-M variants for now, considering their smaller size. In Quantization Aware Training (QAT), the model weights should not be fully converted to 4 bits throughout the entire training process. Instead, the weights should remain in their higher precision format (typically fp32) during training, but simulated as lower precision (e.g., 4 bits) during the forward and backward passes. This approach allows for the benefits of quantization while still leveraging the precision of higher bit-widths for weight updates.

# Acknowledgements 

- Our quantization-aware training modules were adapted from [BitNetMCU: High Accuracy Low-Bit Quantized Neural Networks on a low-end Microcontroller](https://github.com/cpldcpu/BitNetMCU). This project itself, was inspired by their early work on simple 3-layer CNN inference on a low-end MCU. 

# Citation 

If you find our work useful, please cite us. 

```
@software{araviki-2024-qp_tinyspeech, 
    title="QP-TinySpeech: Extremely Low-Bit Quantized + Pruned TinySpeech-Z for low-power MCUs", 
    author="Ravikiran, Akshath Raghav"
    year={2024}
}
```

Original Paper: 
```
@misc{wong-etal-2020-tinyspeech, 
    title="TinySpeech: Attention Condensers for Deep Speech Recognition Neural Networks on Edge Devices", 
    author="Wong, Alexander and 
            Famouri Mahmoud and 
            Pavlova Maya and 
            Surana Siddharth", 
    year={2020},
    eprint={2008.04245},
    archivePrefix={arXiv},
}
```
